One of the greatest challenges we face in the twenty-first century is to sustainably feed nine to ten billion people by 2050 while at the same time reducing environmental impact. Global warming has been a critical problem that determines the sustainable development of the whole world in the next 30 years. Numerous efforts from government agencies, industries, and the scientific community are being made to find feasible solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGE) stemming from the agricultural sector amount to around 30% of global emissions. Every year, agriculture releases significant amounts of CO2 to the atmosphere. CO2 is released largely from microbial decay or burning of plant litter and soil organic matter. 


The US President’s Climate Change Plan sets out to reduce net US GHG emissions by 17% below 2005 levels (6438 million metric tons, mmt, of CO2 equivalent, denoted CO2e) by the year 2020 (EOP 2013). This target requires net 2020 GHG levels to remain below 5344 mmt CO2e, a 7% reduction from current net emissions of 5791 mmt CO2e (EPA 2015) (as the most recent data available, we refer to 2013 levels as Bcurrent emissions). But with the overwhelming pressure of feeding the increasingly large population for food production, it is quite challenging to implement the goal of the Climate Change Plan. Therefore, a dietary shift away from agriculture products with high GHG emission footprints is most likely required. 


Carbon footprint values for the vegetable and animal products were reported by Heller and Keoleian (2014). Heller and Keoleian (2014) conducted a meta-analysis of life-cycle studies of around 100 food products and calculated the average carbon footprints by food type. Beef is the most GHG-intensive food item, with the average emission at 99 kg CO2e/kg. Lamb ranks second with the average CO2 emission at 40 kg CO2e/kg. Other types of meat have relatively lower CO2 footprints. For example, poultry’s footprint is nearly 10 times lower than beef. In comparison with meat, plant-based foods often cause much lower CO2 emission. Vegetables have only 0.5 CO2e/kg and fruits have 1.0 CO2e/kg. Therefore, a lot of studies have been made on replacing beef consumption with other more environment-friendly foods such as plant-based foods. 


Currently, most efforts on these studies focus on optimization of diet towards minimizing CO2 emission. The classic question of dietary optimization was proposed by George Stigler in 1945. Therefore, as known as Sigler’s diet problem, it asks how to minimize monetary cost while meeting basic nutrient requirements. Nowadays, we are not only concerned with the monetary cost of food, but also the environmental cost. 


Gephart et al [1] formulate diet optimization as Sitgler’s problem, which intends to minimize monetary cost while meeting basic nutrient requirements. According to their recommendations, plant-based food and seafood commonly appear in minimized diets and livestock products should be ignored because these foods are less efficient from an environmental perspective. Harwatt et al [2] analyze GHG emissions of beans and beef consumed in the US, and propose replacement of beef with beans in terms of both calories and protein. Their results show that substitution of beef for beans can significantly support the achievement of the 2020 GHG target for the US. 


Although these recommendations are consistent with the recent advocating for improving the sustainability of diets in high-income countries, the limitation of these efforts is obvious. It is extremely difficult to encourage people to completely give up beef eating and only have plant-based food. Moreover, such a radical dietary change is not culturally acceptable and may bring extra financial burdens on low-income families due to high prices on fresh vegetables and fruits. Therefore, a more realistic dietary solution should be considered by replacing beef with chicken in a gradual way.


[1] Gephart JA, Davis KF, Emery KA, Leach AM, Galloway JN, Pace ML. The environmental cost of subsistence: optimizing diets to minimize footprints. Science of the Total Environment. 2016 May 15;553:120-7.
[2] Harwatt, H., Sabaté, J., Eshel, G., Soret, S. and Ripple, W., 2017. Substituting beans for beef as a contribution toward US climate change targets. Climatic Change, 143(1), pp.261-270.

