Firstly, we analyze the impact of food production on CO2 emission and identify the key contributors to CO2 emission during the Food Production process. Figure 1 displays a bar chart on CO2 footprint by food type. Among all the food types, beef ranks the top position in their CO2 emission footprint. The other meat types such as lamb, shrimp, pork and poultry follow the beef with much lower CO2 emission. 


Secondly, we can take a look at the dietary structure of US people from 1970 to 2020, which is shown in Figure 2. Vegetables and fruits occupy the majority quantities in average dietary structure. Given their very low CO2 emission footprint, it is a good choice for Americans to have more vegetables and fruits in their plate. The major problem is the large quantity of beef consumption because beef’s extremely high CO2 emission footprint. Although the consumption of beef seems to drop from the 1980s, it is still much higher than any other meat types. This observation indicates that we should keep improving our dietary structure, especially lower beef consumption to significantly reduce the environmental impact of beef-related food production. 


We run the linear programming algorithm discussed in the previous section to generate the optimal diet for reducing CO2 emission. The result is quite straightforward: if the optimization goal is configured as minimization of CO2 emission, the algorithm recommends people to mainly have vegetables and wheat as their daily food and completely give up beef in their plates. Even with the nutrient constraints such as protein and vitamin intakes, the algorithm still tends to deliver suggestions of replacing meat with plant-based food, especially beef. But such a radical transformation of eating habits must require significant behavior changes. Therefore, it takes gradual steps to persuade average Americans to replace beef with other food types that have a lower CO2 emission footprint. From the perspective of cuisine culture and eating tradition, it is more reasonable to recommend people to change beef with other meat types, for example chicken. 
